Resume
John Lockwood
9175 Greenback Lane #95
Orangevale, CA 95662
Phone: (916) 359-9218
john@particlewave.com
Summary
I am a polyglot software developer with twenty years of experience crafting profitable applications in a variety of roles: as an employee for some great companies, as an independent contractor, and as an entrepreneur.

In addition to the "workday" experiences below, I am a relentless autodidact who in the last five years has worked extensively in Ruby on Rails and Java Spring. I am able to function across the entire life cycle from design to implementation to testing to documentation to maintenance.
Experience
2014:  Software Engineer, Eyefinity (VSP Global)

As a Java developer on the Partner Services and Integration team, contributed new features and critical production fixes to a diverse portfolio of products and applications, including servlets exposing proprietary APIs, traditional WSDL-based Java services, and RESTful web services.  

A typical accomplishment was restoring two related automated jobs running as a client against a RESTful service.  The jobs had been shut down for almost three years due to a combination of performance issues and obscure Hibernate failures.  Once the Hibernate failures that prevented the job from running at all were corrected, I moved on to improve the performance of the second process by 1,250%.

I worked on a variety of J2EE containers including Resin, Tomcat, and JBoss.  Techologies included MySQL, DB2, and mainframe back ends, RESTful and traditional web services, Maven, Jenkins, SoapUI, JUnit, Groovy.  Platforms were Windows, RedHat, and Suse Linux.
2008-2014: Senior Software Engineer Daegis (formerly Unify Corporation)

Ported the client side of an ADO-like database proxy written using the Windows 
Communication Foundation (WCF) so that it can be accessed from applications written by our 
customers in Win32 using our development tool. This client proxies database requests to a backend 
standalone WCF server I wrote, as well as through an IIS WCF web service. 

I also developed (in C#) a new, fully managed ADO .NET data provider for our database product, 
which replaced a legacy hybrid driver consisting of a C# wrapper around our C API. In addition to 
being simpler, the new driver was a good example of Test Driven Development in NUnit, and as a 
result, in contrast to the old driver, which had a meager dozen or so unit tests driving it, our new driver 
sported close to 600 tests (and counting) which are run before each check-in and after each build. 

I also was the programmer charged with maintaining our "router" layer, which is actually a database 
API and a set of drivers targeting SQLBase, Oracle via native OCI, ODBC, OLEDB, native Sybase, 
native Informix, and others.
 (1997-2008) Principle, ParticleWave Software Development

Developed software for a variety of government and private sector clients as a contractor.
Representative Projects:
Lockwood Real Estate / The Real Estate PLUS Team (as owner / entrepreneur).  Developed ten top producing real estate web sites.  Some were initially developed in JSP / Tomcat.  All were later ported to PHP Apache.  Based on MLS data, designed a MySQL database that fed a variety of statistical reports.  Also created lead generation forms and other suitable content.  Using sound white hat Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques, achieved dominant organic keyword placement for many competitive search terms, including “Sacramento Real Estate” and a host of others.
In 2005, the Real Estate PLUS Team closed over $10,000,000 in sales volume, generating approximately $270,000 in commission volume.  The team attributes $240,000 of this $270,000 directly to leads produced by web sites I created.  

California Cancer Registry:  Programmer on a complex N-tier project featuring Javascript, VBScript, ASP, SQL Server stored procedures (including SQL Server XML extensions), Delphi, XML, and XSLT. 

Vision Service Plan:  Lead developer of Vision Service Plan's new Member Portal application, a major port plus rewrite. The software is Model/View/Controller based, and was delivered on time under a tight deadline on which several third party deliverables had slipped.  Introduced JSP (Java Server Pages) into an existing legacy Java project.  Provided training and mentoring to other developers.  Led the research, porting of our application, and deployment of a new servlet engine to improve runtime efficiency 250%. Implemented JUnit automated unit tests and other "best practices" as needed to improve the quality of our processes. 

fusionOne: Wrote middleware in Visual C++ based on the client's API between their synchronization engine and a third party Oracle database.  

Synergex International :  A variety of C++ and Java contracts, including RMI, C++ ActiveX containers, Printing APIs, etc.
1993-1997: Additional Software Experience 

1996-1997 Synergex International, Lead Programmer: Windows programming in C using Visual C++ for the Synergy Windows toolkit. 

1994-1996 The Windward Group, Senior Software Engineer::  Delivered a variety of features for FedEx Ship (in Visual C++), including classes for on-line registration, code and tools to facilitate modem detection on all Windows environments, a Universal Thunk subsystem for accessing 16-bit Windows Communications APIs from WIN32, and a variety of MFC UI features. On Apple's QuickTime for Windows, designed and implemented the self-extracting installation system written entirely in Visual C++ (MFC).

1993-1994:  Borland International, Technical Support Engineer:  Provided support to software developers using Borland’s C++ Windows Compiler, Turbo C++, and the Object Windows Library application framework.  
Languages And Tools
Java, Spring and Spring MVC, C# (C Sharp), Ruby, C++ (Visual C++), C, PERL, Object Pascal (Delphi), Javascript, JQuery and JQuery UI, DOS Batch / UNIX shell scripts, Visual Basic and VBScript. HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, XHTML, PHP, JSP, Struts, ASP.
Search engine optimization, web site marketing and web metrics.  On-page and off-page SEO, link management, dynamic and static content development.
Make files, Subversion, Git, PVCS, CVS, Visual SourceSafe, etc.  Java JDKs and Microsoft SDKs, Microsoft MSDN, Visual Cafe, JBuilder, DreamWeaver, Fireworks.
Databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Access, Paradox.   PL/SQL, Transact SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers, etc.  O/S including Windows, Linux, Unix.
Best practices including automated unit testing, code walk through and step through.
Other
M.A, Indiana University, History and Philosophy of Science.
References available on request.
Bilingual English / Spanish
